# Overview

Volatility is one of the most prominent terms you’ll hear on any trading floor – and for good reason. In financial markets, volatility captures the amount of fluctuation in prices. High volatility is associated to periods of market turbulence and to large price swings, while low volatility describes more calm and quiet markets. For trading firms like Optiver, accurately predicting volatility is essential for the trading of options, whose price is directly related to the volatility of the underlying product.

As a leading global electronic market maker, Optiver is dedicated to continuously improving financial markets, creating better access and prices for options, ETFs, cash equities, bonds and foreign currencies on numerous exchanges around the world. Optiver’s teams have spent countless hours building sophisticated models that predict volatility and continuously generate fairer options prices for end investors. However, an industry-leading pricing algorithm can never stop evolving, and there is no better place than Kaggle to help Optiver take its model to the next level.

In the first three months of this competition, you’ll build models that predict short-term volatility for hundreds of stocks across different sectors. You will have hundreds of millions of rows of highly granular financial data at your fingertips, with which you'll design your model forecasting volatility over 10-minute periods. Your models will be evaluated against real market data collected in the three-month evaluation period after training.

Through this competition, you'll gain invaluable insight into volatility and financial market structure. You'll also get a better understanding of the sort of data science problems Optiver has faced for decades. We look forward to seeing the creative approaches the Kaggle community will apply to this ever complex but exciting trading challenge.

Important Links
- [Introduction to financial concepts and data](https://www.kaggle.com/code/jiashenliu/introduction-to-financial-concepts-and-data)
  - Similar to order book data, trade data is also extremely crucial to Optiver's data scientists, as it reflects how active the market is. Actually, some commonly seen technical signals of the financial market are derived from trade data directly, such as high-low or total traded volume.
  - The order book is also one of the primary source for stock valuation. A fair book-based valuation must take two factors into account: the level and the size of orders. In this competition we used weighted averaged price, or **WAP, to calculate the instantaneous stock valuation and calculate realized volatility as our target**.
  - In this competition, Kagglers are challenged to generate a series of short-term signals from the book and trade data of a fixed 10-minute window to predict the realized volatility of the next 10-minute window. The target, which is given in train/test.csv, can be linked with the raw order book/trade data by the same time_id and stock_id. There is no overlap between the feature and target window.
  - try to calculcate realized volatility stock by stock